>> Kevin Powell: All right, so
with everything we've done
up until now in place,
the next thing that we wanna start doing
is looking a little bit more at layout.
Everything we've done until now has
to work across all screen sizes, so
we haven't had to think too much about
everything that we've needed to do.
Whereas now we're gonna start coming into
we need columns, we need other things, and
we need to decide if we're doing
it mobile-first, desktop-first.
How we're approaching things to
make these types of decisions.
Though, I do wanna say,
I do think this whole debate thing,
most people I think do lean mobile-first.
There's some people out there
who will always be like,
I only do desktop applications that
are for enterprise so I don't care.
And I'm like, well that's great,
then it is a case by case basis.
The thing that I usually try and
advocate for is taking the path of
least resistance, which is just do the one
that means you write less code and
it's gonna be a lot easier to maintain.
One example that I like to
give is just doing columns,
say you're using display grid,
if I did it mobile first, I can say,
display grid, put a gap, and then I just
add the columns at a larger screen size.
If I did the same thing with desktop,
first, I'm setting up the grid,
I'm doing the gap, I'm doing the columns,
and then I have to change my columns
again to go back to what
the default behavior already was.
That just always seems a bit awkward to me
when I need to use a media query to put
things back to where they
were before I wrote anything.
The other example I give for
this is Mobile navigations,
which we're gonna be eventually getting to
where it doesn't really, it's the one or
one of the few cases where a mobile
navigation is actually a lot
more complicated at smaller screen sizes.
And if you were to do a mobile first for
your mobileNAV, and
then you have to come in with
the desktopNAV to simplify it,
you're writing a lot of code to go back to
the starting code that you already had.
So that's one of those times where maybe
you go, well actually it makes more sense
to use a max width media query or
a desktop first approach.
Before you choose any of those,
though, one thing, or
we'll talk about break points too,
but one thing I would talk about,
I like to talk about is
the idea of intrinsic layouts.
This is a term that was coined by Jen
Simmons, which is when you're not worried
about the media query at all, you're
letting the browser figure it out for
you based on different information
that you're giving it.
So one example of that is when using Grid,
if you're using the autofit syntax,
which we're gonna have to use for
our second page eventually,
where the browser figures
it out all on its own.
We don't actually have to do
anything along the way for that.
We're gonna see this later on, so
we'll talk more about that when we get
to those stages of building that out.
But our navigation is actually one area
where we could come in with a nice,
intrinsic layout without having
to worry about things too much.
We will eventually do it in
a bit of a fancier way, but
I'm actually a big fan of
not having to do that.
I just included it in this project cuz I
know it's something that most people do
need to actually implement
in real-world projects.
But if we come and
take a look at our navigation at the top,
let's go look at the markup
that we had for it.
Use my mini-map here to go all the way up,
I'm gonna turn off Word Wrap.
Just so we can look at the structure of
it, I'm not worried about the content.
I have a site header, I have a wrapper,
and then I have an image and a NAV,
UL doesn't really matter too much,
we'll look at that in a little bit.
But we basically have this wrapper, and
then we have this NAV in this image,
I need to separate them and
I need them to be in separate columns.
So I need to have some sort of layout
here, you could come on your wrapper and
do something, whether it's flex or
grid on something like this.
I tend to, and a very common pattern
with headers cuz headers often have
this header and
then inside the header you have and
then you have a layout in there
is coming in with another div.
And I'm gonna call it site-header-inner,
and I talked about not being
a BEM person as much anymore.
This is one of those cases where I still
use the BEM naming pattern of the double
underscore.
Just to say when something is meant to be
used inside of something else, basically.
The idea with them is it's the block,
it's like an inner block element modifier.
It's an inner element to the site
header block is sort of how they do it.
It's to say that this only
use case the only time you
should be using it is if it's in here.
I don't use a data attribute, or anything
like that, cuz the connection doesn't seem
to be there for me,
I feel like it still makes sense this way.
This is a place where you could just
do a site-header-inner if you prefer,
there's no harm in having that.
The advantage of using the double for
modifier classes and the double underscore
for saying that it belongs in something is
it just creates like a visual separation.
You have the name of the thing here and
then the extra bit of information
coming after it separates them.
So, when you're scanning
through something,
it's easier to tell what it's doing.
So I'm gonna go with that approach, but
if you prefer a different name, you can.
But I really do think I don't want it
necessarily on my wrapper, even though,
at the end of the day, it wouldn't
cause any harm if it was there.
I just like separating those concerns
between what those two divs are doing.
I know people don't like having
too many divs on something,
but I don't think it
causes any issues here.
The other thing I need to think about now,
actually, because we were working on our
site header, and we're gonna be getting
into more pieces along the way,
is the site header a layout.
Even though like and actually,
we could even call this site header layout
if you wanted to, instead of inner,
just to be more clear, I use inner
because it's is what I've always used.
But if you like layout, because creating
a layout that works, so because it is
something where we're controlling
a layout, the first thought would be,
let's put it in my layouts layer,
because it's a layout.
But as much as possible, I like using
my layouts layer for generic layouts,
these are things I could just Plug and
Play and use absolutely anywhere.
Whereas if it's something that's
specific for one use case and
it should only be used
within this one area,
that's where I like actually coming in and
creating a new layer.
So we'll come in here,
I'm gonna collapse the base one again,
just to clean things up a little bit,
collapse them all.
And After my layout, but
before my utilities,
cuz I like having my utilities as the last
layer to give it the highest importance,
is to do a layer of components, which
are just sort of these one-off pieces.
This is my site header, I'm only doing
site header stuff, or it's my site footer,
or it's gonna be the card,
or other things like that.
And so I can do my site Header, I don't
know if I need to style anything on that
right now, so I'm not gonna put that
selector, we might need to have it after.
We probably will, but
I'm just gonna do the inner right there,
throw display flex on here,
so we get two columns, and
you can see right away that
they're going next to one another.
And then I can do, a justify content,
ooops just defy content of space
between if you get mixed up between
the different spacing things or
even justify versus the line items.
It's the same as a lot of
beginners when very early days,
when using margin and padding,
it's easy to mix them up, try one,
if it's the wrong one,
you do the other one.
It's easy enough to switch between
stuff as you're learning them, but
I want the space between so it pushes them
as far apart, as far apart as possible.
Then we could do the same
thing inside there, just for
our navigation,
I think everybody's used to doing that.
So on my NAV,
I have my UL that's in there, so
I can select my primary navigation.
And in this case,
I'm just gonna use nesting,
cuz I find it a little bit easier
if you prefer not to use nesting.
This selector could just be your
primary navigation UL like that, so,
primary navigation UL and
I can do a display
flex gap 1 rem and that comes together.
And Flexbox is really awesome,
I made a bobo there, there we go,
Flexbox is really awesome because it
just stuff happens when we use it.
Everything's going next to each other,
it looks really good, the problem with
Flexbox is it sort of tricks us
into looking like it's responsive.
But what happens is when you get to these
smaller screen sizes it just causes
overflow, because the elements flex,
they go next to one another,
they don't do anything from there.
And then we feel like we need to come in
with media queries or come in with other
solutions, but as much as possible,
talking about intrinsic layouts.
So the idea here is, with your flex,
we can do a flex wrap, on that.
So now, when this runs out of room,
instead of getting stuck there,
it's gonna wrap and go underneath.
And it's really, really simple,
the one thing is they do get
really close to each other.
So you could also put in a gap here,
whatever space you feel like is
appropriate just so it wraps before they
actually touch each other cuz it looks
kind Kind of ugly if they're
touching each other.
And just like that, we have something
that works across different screen sizes
without having to come in with a media
query, decide where a break point is.
Stress about any of that,
the browser just figures it out
based on the space that's available.
I would actually argue putting the flex
wrap on the UL is also a good thing.
Just so if ever those once that wraps
like here, these can also wrap as well.
Hopefully, nobody of your users
is on a screen this narrow, but
it just makes it a bit more robust and
you don't have to worry about it,
which is always really handy.
The other thing I'll say with wrap,
if you're using it, is when things wrap,
the visual spacing looks different
when it's between the rows and
between the columns.
So the visual space between discover and
mushroom guide looks pretty narrow
compared to the visual space
between the discover and the FAQ.
Even though it's actually
the same amount of space,
it's using the gap of one REM part of
that's just how font rendering works.
Cuz there's often a little bit
of extra space on the top and
on the bottom of the funs.
And there's trick of the eyes
things that just happened, so
the combination of both of them.
The spacing always looks a little bigger,
so usually or
use the short hand here 0.5 maybe
the same thing here o.5 rem.
So to be 0.5 rem on the top and
the bottom and then 1 rem on the left and
the right just officially to
look more balanced though.
Not something you need to do but
most of the time when I
have wrapping I do find I have the top and
bottom wrapping end up being smaller.
The only exception to this
was if it's not text.
If it's things that have background
colors and padding on them,
then you'd want consistent
spacing all the way around.
But it gives us a nice mobile navigation
without having to stress about it or
do anything and use my personal side
its so much lower friction and so
much less work to get something working.
The last thing I will do,
is just do very quickly,
I said we probably needed, side header.
You can even do this on the inner but
budding lack on rem to add some
just to make sure it does not touch
the top of our screen to give us some
little space on the bottom as well.
And we can close the dev tools,
and there we go,
we have a responsive navigation,
intrinsic layout where it just works.